ARE YOU FAMILIAR WITH THIS CONCEPTS?!?!?



Commands:
What is cd?
cd is to navigate to directories


What is ls?
ls is the list the contents of a directory 


What is mkdir, cp, rm, and touch?
mkdir is to make a directory in the current directory
cp is the copy a file in the current directory to some directory
touch is to create a file


What is locate, whereis, which, and find? 
whereis is used to locate binary, source files, and manual files.
locate ???
which is used with executables to find the path 
find specific files with certain attributes


What is man and --help used for
--help is used to get a brief summary on how to use a command
man is used to get the full documentation of a command


/var/log


What does cat, less, more, tail, head do
cat displays the file name or concats two files together
less displays the file going up or down
more displays the file only going down
tail displays the end of the file with the specific amount of lines
head displays the top of the file with the specific amount of lines


What does grep and sed do
grep stands for global regular expressions and filters out things you need in a file using regular expression patterns you define
sed select, sub, add lines, delete, or modify/preserve files and text.


What does > and tee do?
> redirects std in, out, and, err to a text file
tee ???


| ?
This is the pipeline operator which you can chain different commands together


nano, vim, code? 
nano is the manipulate files or create files
vin ???
code is to view the contents of a file.


What does apt do?
apt is for installing, updating, removing, and managing deb packages on ubuntu, debian, and related linux distributions. It combines the most frequent
used commands from the apt-get and apt-cache tools with different default values of some options. apt is designed for interactive use. usually for
sudo privs.


What does chown chgrp chmod commands do? 
chown changing or assign ownership to the file which has access to chmod
chgrp changes the name of the group
chmod with the three hex numbers can change the read write and exe of a file with 777 meaning anyone is able to access the file


sudo?
sudo creates new users. It stands for superuser do 


What is ps, top, nice, kill?
kill makes sure a loop or a faulty file will stop running given the process ID
ps ???
top ???
nice ???



Networking:
OSI model


IP addresses


MAC Addresses


TCP/IP


TCP UDP


DNS


VPN tunneling


TLS & SSL



Bash Scripting:
What is a shell?
Through a shell such as a CLI such as cygwin
I can send commands to the shell such as linux to talk to the hardware & software of your computer.


What is Bash?
Bash is a type of unix shell and command language used to send commands to the kernal. It is a superset of the bourne shell command. 
Bash is now known as bourne again shell.
It is highly used in Linux as it has multiple features to navigate through the OS and run all sorts of commands.


Why does a bash script have to start with #! (shhhbang)
shhbang is used to tell the kernel which interpreter should be used to run the cmds present in the file.


What is a variable and how to use them
A variable is used to store information which can then be manipulated to a specific need to get a desired output


How to accept user input and output?
#define the variable 
$variable_name
read -p "Whatever you want to display to the user: " variable_name
echo $variable_name


How to execute a script? 
bash /path/to/script_name.sh